  
排除法:

直接计算不好计算的时候, 可以排除掉反向的解

[[2364. Count Number of Bad Pairs]]

  
heap

[[1353. Maximum Number of Events That Can Be Attended]]

[[2406. Divide Intervals Into Minimum Number of Groups]]

  
  

Segment Tree

[[307. Range Sum Query - Mutable]]

  

DP

[[1155. Number of Dice Rolls With Target Sum]]

[[1223. Dice Roll Simulation]]

字符串匹配型DP

[[97. Interleaving String]]

  

backtrack

[[46. Permutations]]

[[47. Permutations II]]

[[51. N-Queens]]

[[52. N-Queens II]]

[[77. Combinations]]

[[78. Subsets]]

[[291. Word Pattern II]]

[[2375. Construct Smallest Number From DI String]]

[[2386. Find the K-Sum of an Array]]

[[254. Factor Combinations]]

[[2044. Count Number of Maximum Bitwise-OR Subsets]]

  

简单题

[[657. Robot Return to Origin]]

[[2336. Smallest Number in Infinite Set]]

[[2331. Evaluate Boolean Binary Tree]]

[[2337. Move Pieces to Obtain a String]]

[[2315. Count Asterisks]]

[[2293. Min Max Game]]

[[2294. Partition Array Such That Maximum Difference Is K]]

[[2295. Replace Elements in an Array]]

[[2309. Greatest English Letter in Upper and Lower Case]]

[[2288. Apply Discount to Prices]]

[[2330. Valid Palindrome IV]]

[[2279. Maximum Bags With Full Capacity of Rocks]]

[[2283. Check if Number Has Equal Digit Count and Digit Value]]

[[2284. Sender With Largest Word Count]]

[[2374. Node With Highest Edge Score]]

  

二分法

[[362. Design Hit Counter]]

[[2387. Median of a Row Wise Sorted Matrix]]

[[658. Find K Closest Elements]]

  
  

simulate

[[1419. Minimum Number of Frogs Croaking]]

  

greedy

[[948. Bag of Tokens]]

[[2412. Minimum Money Required Before Transactions]]

[[2275. Largest Combination With Bitwise AND Greater Than Zero]]

  
  

trie

[[2416. Sum of Prefix Scores of Strings]]

[[1032. Stream of Characters]]

trie来count distinct subarray

[[2261. K Divisible Elements Subarrays]]

[[1698. Number of Distinct Substrings in a String]]

  
  

math

[[779. K-th Symbol in Grammar]]

  
  

mono stack

[[907. Sum of Subarray Minimums]]

  
  

日期处理

[[1154. Day of the Year]]

[[1360. Number of Days Between Two Dates]]

[[1185. Day of the Week]]

[[2409. Count Days Spent Together]]

  
  

双指针

模板： i, j = -1, 0

[[904. Fruit Into Baskets]]

[[1004. Max Consecutive Ones III]]

  
  

tree

[[113. Path Sum II]]

  

关于位操作，一个不好的习惯就是喜欢转换成string来操作

bin(n)[2:][::1]

应该直接用移位操作

  
  

拓扑排序

拓扑排序一定要从degree最小的节点开始,对于有向图最小值是0，对于无向图是1。因为最小值才能保证一定是叶子节点，如果是最大值则没有这个特性。

indegrees和outdegrees最好是用defaultdict(set)

[[310. Minimum Height Trees]]

[[802. Find Eventual Safe States]]

  
  
  

Tree LCA

[[236. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree]]

[[1123. Lowest Common Ancestor of Deepest Leaves]]

[[1644. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree II]]

[[1650. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree III]]

[[1676. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree IV]]

  
  
  

python用面向对象会导致运行速度变慢

  
  
  

海岛类题目

- dfs比unionFind代码简洁

- 把遍历过的海岛变成水

[[200. Number of Islands]]

[[694. Number of Distinct Islands]]

[[695. Max Area of Island]]

[[1020. Number of Enclaves]]

[[1254. Number of Closed Islands]]

[[1905. Count Sub Islands]]

  
  

Hash Table

frequency类问题

substr, subarray frequency类问题

特点：

- 字符范围小，遵循奇偶性原则，可以用bitmask表示key

- 由于是subarray, substr, 如果遍历时间复杂度过高，选择用prefix sum map来存储{key:index}

[[1371. Find the Longest Substring Containing Vowels in Even Counts]]

[[1542. Find Longest Awesome Substring]]

  

equal frequency类问题

[[1224. Maximum Equal Frequency]]

[[2423. Remove Letter To Equalize Frequency]]

  
  

高级数据结构

SortedList

[[1885. Count Pairs in Two Arrays]]

[[2426. Number of Pairs Satisfying Inequality]]

  
  

差分数组

[[370. Range Addition]]

[[1109. Corporate Flight Bookings]]

[[1094. Car Pooling]]

[[1589. Maximum Sum Obtained of Any Permutation]]

  

区间题
[[56. Merge Intervals]]
[[252. Meeting Rooms]]
[[253. Meeting Rooms II]]
[[435. Non-overlapping Intervals]]
[[1094. Car Pooling]]
[[452. Minimum Number of Arrows to Burst Balloons]]
[[646. Maximum Length of Pair Chain]]
[[986. Interval List Intersections]]

区间求交

```py

def isIntersect(self, interval1: List[int], interval2: List[int]) -> bool:

return not (max(interval1) <= min(interval2) or min(interval1) >= max(interval2))

```

  
  

前缀和

[[303. Range Sum Query - Immutable]]

[[2270. Number of Ways to Split Array]]

二维数组前缀和

[[304. Range Sum Query 2D - ImmutableM]]

  
  

链表

反转链表

[[206. Reverse Linked List]]

[[92. Reverse Linked List II]]

[[25. Reverse Nodes in k-Group]]

[[234. Palindrome Linked List]]

[[369. Plus One Linked List]]

回文链表

[[234. Palindrome Linked List]]

链表双指针

快慢指针或者双指针

[[21. Merge Two Sorted Lists]]

[[86. Partition List]]

[[142. Linked List Cycle II]]

[[876. Middle of the Linked List]]

[[160. Intersection of Two Linked Lists]]

[[19. Remove Nth Node From End of List]]

[[141. Linked List Cycle]]

  
  

recursive

[[880. Decoded String at Index]]

  
  

扫描线

[[732. My Calendar III]]